it's been a crazy year but the good news
is that many ielts test centers
are now reopening of course they're
taking
covert precautions which means that your
speaking test
may be a little different and in this
video i'm going to run through the
possible scenarios
when it comes to taking ielts speaking
in the pandemic
and i'll share some tips for each
possible scenario and get jade to
demonstrate some good techniques
the first scenario is just business as
usual
so in some test centers probably not
many
there'll be no change to the way you
take the speaking test
what this means is regardless of whether
you're doing paper delivered
or computer-delivered ielts your
speaking test
will be one-on-one with an examiner in a
separate room
either before your test sometimes days
before
or after your test on the same day or a
few days later
to practice for any kind of ielts
speaking test in any format of course
practice is key so you can download our
20 speaking topics pdf from the link in
the description below
scenario 2 is video conferencing
speaking tests
obviously this measure keeps the
candidates and the examiners
physically separate but you'll probably
be in you could be in the same test
center
so you'll do your reading writing and
listening parts of the test
in your room computer or paper and when
you do your
speaking test you'll be in your own room
with a computer obviously a camera and a
microphone
and your examiner may be next door
on their own computer or they could be
in another city or another country
besides that the test is exactly the
same you'll still go through
the identity check part one two and
three
you will see the part two topic when
it's flashed up on the screen
from the examiner otherwise you will sit
and answer the questions
as you normally would if your speaking
test
is going to be conducted via video
conferencing then of course
before test day make sure you practice
and are comfortable
talking to someone on the computer i'm
sure you've already spent hours and
hours on zoom
during the pandemic but have you done
ielts speaking tests
that way it's a little bit of a
different experience so
before test day set up a zoom account
or just use facetime on your camera and
do full speaking tests you can find a
partner to practice with or come and
join us at e2 we
do zoom speaking tests all day every day
the third scenario is the speaking test
with a mask
and in that case you and your examiner
will both be
wearing masks so obviously there are a
few
tips that can help you perform better in
this situation
number one practice with your mask on
before
test day doing a speaking test with a
mask
is quite different to the normal
situation
you need to be a bit more animated a bit
more energetic
in order to get your message across and
to demonstrate
your best language so before you take
your test
practice lots of speaking tests wearing
your mask and on test day
wear a mask that you're comfortable in
you don't want to be having trouble
breathing or feeling uncomfortable in
the test situation
tip number two is to open your mouth
more than usual
this is because obviously the mask is
blocking the projection of your voice
somewhat and if you don't do it it can
be hard for the examiner to catch what
you're saying
well one of the things that comes to
mind is
the time i went to the dentist notice
the difference when he
opens his mouth more like this
okay well one of the things that comes
to mind is when i went to the dentist
tip number three is to use emphasis
and intonation as you're speaking
hopefully you're already doing this but
when you're speaking with a mask you
should turn it up
a little bit again just because your
voice is getting blocked by the mask
this will help you to sound more fluent
also to sound more confident to the
examiner
notice the difference between speaking
without emphasis and intonation
it was a really interesting experience
and then with emphasis and intonation it
was a
really interesting experience it's a
simple little trick but it can make
a huge difference tip number four is
another very simple tip turn up the
volume
this is a purely practical matter if you
are a quiet speaker naturally
the mask is going to muffle your speech
even more
so turn up the volume if i had the
opportunity i would do it again
if i had the opportunity i would do it
again
so what scenario will you have on test
day well you'll need to check with your
test center
or i'm sure they'll email you those
details and i would love to hear
about your experience taking ielts
during the pandemic
please share with me in the comments
section below
for more ielts help come and join me and
the expert ielts teachers at
e2language.com
see you there
[Music]